QuickTime Media Skins.
My name is Glenn Bullich.
I work in the QuickTime product
marketing group,
and we're very, very,
very lucky to have the
two presenters here today.
Very, very, very fortunate indeed.
So many of you obviously know
what QuickTime Media Skins are,
and we really thought that this
particular session we could present
to you probably some of the largest
media events out on the web in
QuickTime wrapped in media skins,
and the two people that we
have to present today drove
the teams that delivered that.
So what I'll do is I'll just give,
we're going to do about 30
minutes for each of them,
and then we'll do some Q&A afterwards.
It's really important if we do.
If you do want to ask some questions of
these folks and some of the other people
in the audience who supported them,
that you do walk up to the mic because
the questions will be clearly translated,
and that way we can have it as a
record for everyone to use on the
DVD and on the VOD afterwards.
So originally with Fallon, Minneapolis,
Mark Sandau drove the team that
delivered the BMW Films experience
over the last couple of years,
and we're really thrilled to have him.
And Lori Schwartz with
Zentropy Partners has driven.
We've done an incredible amount
of work with notable companies
like Reebok from Los Angeles,
and so we're going to have both
of them present in reverse order,
and we'll start with Lori.
So thank you for coming,
and I hope you enjoy.
[Transcript missing]
The first case study, Reebok,
is what we call the
Reebok Experts Network.
Basically, Reebok came to us and said,
"Look, we have all these master trainers.
They're fitness experts,
and we'd like an opportunity
to show them off.
These are the people that
invented Step Reebok.
We've got all this cool video content.
We have interviews with them.
We have images.
We have text.
We want to figure out a
way to house all this.
So let's build something in
Flash," because everybody
was familiar with Flash.
They were also looking for something
that could compete with Nike and
some of their other competitors,
because all their other competitors were
doing really interactive Flash sites.
So because we had done these
demos with QuickTime skins,
our creative group said, "Well,
why not house all of these really
great assets in a media skin?
It's a perfect place,
because QuickTime is, after all,
a bucket of content,
to put all this cool stuff." So our
solution was to build a master
trainer skin to house eight...
eight pieces of trainer information,
basically.
So the first thing that we did
was we built a pretty intricate
and detailed user experience,
information architecture flow.
And this was really important,
because there were... there
are actually eight different
skins within this larger skin,
and there are actually three
pieces of video content,
each with three bandwidth choices.
So it was a lot of material to
house inside of one piece and could
get very complicated and at times,
very complicated.
So we built a user experience chart here,
and you can just see,
and I'm sorry the images
aren't a little bigger.
And the final execution is over here,
and you can see there was a global nav
established just so everybody would have
a place to go and a real detailed spill
down into how this thing would work.
So let me give you a little demo of it.
Oh, terribly sorry.
And some of you may have seen this.
This was out about two years ago,
I think, maybe a year and a half ago.
How many-- have many of
you seen this before?
A few of you?
I know my Live Stage Pro guys did,
because this was actually
built in Live Stage Pro,
which I believe has a sale
going on right now at the show,
ladies and gentlemen.
I'm not a Live Stage employee.
OK, so can we go to the iBook, please?
Great.
Okay, so let me just show you
how that guy launched,
really simple.
So this actually lived off of
Reebok's website in a special
section of their Reebok University.
It's branded to Reebok,
and we have a little flash navigation
here with eight trainers on here.
There's a link to go
back to this main page.
There's also a link to go directly to
a URL where you could find a trainer in
your area by putting in your zip code.
So the idea here is to create a
really cool marketing experience,
but also to create something
that does something.
So they wanted to drive people
to their trainer website.
Okay, so let's click on a trainer here.
Okay, so, Gin Miller was famous for
inventing Step Reebok,
so we created a skin here
that highlights Step Reebok,
and there's three questions
that she answered,
so user would click on one of
these questions and it would
bring up some video content.
My favorite aspect of training now,
at my age, at 45, is to release stress.
If I've had a hard day,
or I've been at the computer all day,
or I've had a hard home call,
just try to get people different
things or answers to questions.
I need to get out the door,
find my credibility, and go for one.
There's also bios here so that people
can find out more about the trainer.
Now, interestingly enough,
there were a couple of interesting things
that came out of building this thing,
and we can go back to the PowerPoint.
The client wanted a streaming
experience because two years ago,
streaming was like, "Whoo,
streaming!" We were actually pushing
for a progressive download experience
because we knew that progressive
content is better for like one-minute,
two-minute pieces of video,
but they were, you know, really,
we want streaming.
So we went ahead and we built a
streaming version of the Reebok Skin,
but what happened with the programming
was that when the video ended,
it needed to trigger a snapback
to the questions that you saw.
So the streaming version actually
had a terrible user interface because
you'd have to wait a long time until
that buffer signal ended and it
would snap back to the questions.
So we ended up going back and
building another version of it that
was progressive and then getting
the client to sign off on that.
So it ended up being a lot more fun.
It ended up being a lot more
production time and a lot of
aggravation that didn't need to happen
if we could have sold the client
originally on the progressive idea.
And what this really did was it helped
me to formulate some best practices
that we present to the client up front.
You know, more officially saying to them,
"Look, we've looked at streaming and
progressive and how to really build
this experience in the best light,
and for shorter pieces of content,
for things like this,
it's better to go with progressive.
For other longer, chapterized things,
it's better to go with streaming."
So this really helped us
educate ourselves and in
the future educate our clients,
and that was a big lesson
that we learned here.
We also learned that we had to
have more QA in the project because
we had milestones set throughout,
but we didn't have enough milestones.
And so sometimes our programmer
would go off and do some things,
then we'd take a look at it and we'd
see he'd gone too far down the path and
we'd have to go back a few steps again.
So that was a big lesson for us to
schedule in more client reviews,
more QA, and to really get best
practices out there.
Let me go forward from here.
Also the other thing that we
kind of really figured out is
that whenever we're dealing with
media skins and new technology,
we still have to talk about the brand,
go over the creative brief,
provide stats, metrics,
context for the client.
So just because we're doing
something kind of new and groovy,
we still have to go back to
all the methods that we used
for a traditional web page.
So we're going to talk
about the web page,
the web development,
and online marketing.
And the more that we saturate this
process with our traditional practices,
the more that this stuff
becomes real to everybody.
It becomes safer.
It's not something scary
to go out and build,
and the client feels more secure.
So that was another thing that we
learned is that we really have to
sell this in the same way that we
sell in everything and not make
it so intimidating to a client.
Could I have the real-time?
These are some of the questions
that after this process we came
up with whenever we try and
sell something to a client.
What was the original business
concept that launched the
product or technology concept?
What business value was
it designed to impart?
In this case,
it was a marketing experience.
What is the return on investment?
Well, we're trying to drive clicks to a
specific section on the website,
so that's what that URL was.
What's the return on investment?
Has it proven successful?
And when we looked at the numbers,
and I think specifically when it
was listed on the QuickTime site,
we had about a 10% increase to the
site when this thing first launched.
And then why or why not?
And always to do a postpartum on it to
see how you really did on this thing.
Okay, so let's jump into the
Nautica case study.
Nautica specifically is a great
example because it shows how we sort
of had a turn in how we're looking
at media skins and also how we're
selling media skins to our clients.
They came to us and they asked us to
design and build a website that had
the following objectives in mind.
They wanted something to
combine all of their brands.
And they also had a great
deal of offline video footage,
footage from events, from, you know,
models and fashion shows.
And they also do a lot of co-branding
things with sporting events,
with sailing and things like that.
So they had all this video
content that was just sitting
there and wasn't being used.
And they were thinking, well,
how can we use this?
So once again,
we pitched the idea of building a media
skin that would house all of these assets
and put this media skin on the site and
we would call it the Nautica magazine.
And the ultimate objective for them was
to collect emails because they wanted
to develop a more robust user database.
So we consolidated all this content
onto one section on the website
called the Nautica Magazine,
and then we built what they
were calling the NS83TV,
which was a customized QuickTime media
player which housed all the assets.
And we also included a
registration box on the home page,
and we actually ended up
collecting about 8,000 emails
two months after it launched.
Now the interesting thing about
this skin that's different from the
Reebok skin is the way we sold it.
In this case, we sold this as a desktop
application that could actually grow,
that you could scale out as
more content became available,
that we could turn into something
that lived and breathed and stayed on
a desktop so that the user could have
this persistent Nautica experience.
And one of the ways that we
encouraged the idea of this to the
client was to build a flash nav,
and so that as more
content became available,
we could grow it.
So we started to grow out this flash nav.
So let me launch the skin for you.
Is everybody having a good time so far?
Good?
Okay.
It's 3 o'clock.
I know it's -- sugar's dropping.
Did everyone have some candy
to get their energy up?
Okay.
That's important.
So --
That's just a reference file that we use.
So this is actually our Nautica skin,
and it's not the sexiest
skin in the world,
I admit, but it's still on the
Nautica site right now,
and I have the client calling me and
asking to put more content on it,
and I just think that is a tremendous.
So here's the flash nav up there,
and what we do is,
as more fashion shows and
content becomes available,
we just expand this global nav,
so they don't have to keep paying for
a rebuild of something cool and funky.
We have something that can grow
with the brand and with the client.
Let me show you some content.
So that's Daisy Fuentes,
so that really makes a lot of
people happy to see Daisy Fuentes.
And we did sell this as
something that also we could add
a chatting functionality to it,
we could add email collection
right inside of this skin.
We talked about all the powerful
things that you can leverage with
QuickTime and with XML and the fact
that you could dig into a database.
Now we haven't gone
there yet with this skin,
but that was part of the sell and
the client really bought off on that.
We also have the traditional small,
medium, and large bandwidth choices,
and obviously all these buttons work.
Now, the other interesting
thing that happened,
and this is another best practice lesson,
is that the client discovered
iMovie and decided to start
compressing their own video,
which, you know, is all great for getting
Apple products out there,
but a terrible thing,
when you receive a 56K
file for 56K compression,
that's 320 by 240.
So, I had to actually,
in a good way with the account manager,
guide the client through the
fact that we can't control,
you know, quality,
we can't give quality assurance unless
we're the ones controlling the assets.
So, now the client sends us, you know,
beta or DV cam or whatever it
is that they're working with,
and they let us handle
all the compression.
And, again, that's a best practice thing.
That's really educating the client on
how this process works and the best
way to deliver the best experience.
Because they don't want their video
looking like... They don't want their
video looking like crap on their website.
And this thing can also,
and I don't know how many
of you are familiar with it,
but it's QuickTime,
so it can be laid off to CD-ROM.
The reference file for
this can be emailed out.
So, it's a very viral experience as well,
and everybody likes to hear
viral in this community.
Not in regular life, but in this,
everybody likes it.
So, can we go back to the PowerPoint?
Thank you.
So the other thing that I've been
finding in building these skins is to
really leverage press opportunities
because these haven't been done
yet the way they should be done,
I feel.
And so when we launch one,
we get great grassroots marketing,
and I turned to Apple, actually,
to help me do that.
And so every time I launch
an interesting media skin,
I get help from them,
and they put it on What's On,
if they think it's interesting,
What's On, in their What's On section,
and also in their QuickTime.
And so I've been able to get a
lot of people to come in and say,
hey, I want to know what's on your skin,
and I can't tell you how powerful that
is for my Nautica client to hear that
they're getting free press and getting
thousands and thousands of consumers
out there reading about their skin and
then getting driven to their website.
So it's very powerful.
And the fact that it's so powerful
actually got the global manager,
the global head of Zentropy,
to write a quote in a press release,
and we sent out a press release
about this Nautica skin.
And this was huge because this
is a guy that two years ago,
refused to have anything
to do with QuickTime.
And because one of the things that we're
doing as an interactive advertising
agency is looking at ways to leverage
client assets and to really grow a
brand in a lot of different ways,
he was so excited about this,
he now sees the potential of it,
and he's talking about
QuickTime all the time.
And I just remember
the first time he said,
we could do QuickTime.
I dropped whatever I was holding
because it had been a two-year journey
for me to get him to feel that way.
So everybody now is really... behind
the development of this stuff.
So where we are right now as a company,
as an interactive agency,
is looking into solutions for our
clients that really highlight branding,
that highlight conversion.
And what I mean by conversion is if you
have a consumer who's never heard of the
brand or who's not a fan of the brand,
experiences that attract them,
that get them hooked on,
that get them seduced and become
lifelong members of this brand.
And also applications that collect
data and information and that
stay persistent in a user's mind
and perhaps on their desktop.
So desktop applications and the
use of QuickTime Media Skins
for me is just an all-around
great solution for these ideas.
Also, everything that you build
in this can be tracked.
So for a lot of our clients,
they want to see numbers on
how these things are doing.
So you can directly
look on a daily basis,
see what people are doing,
see where in the skin
they're interacting,
what content.
And then you can also look at
the content that they're using.
So you can look at the content
that they're using and see where
in the skin they're interacting,
what content is exciting them and
really leverage all of that information.
And the other thing also to be aware
of is right now what's happening in
the living room with cable operators,
with video on demand and with TiVo
and other PVR solutions is pieces of
video content is really becoming a
much stronger player for advertisers.
What used to be video that just,
you know,
stayed on the cutting room floor
is now becoming significant
content that people are showing.
And with living rooms becoming wireless
and the opportunity for a user to have
a dual screen experience where maybe
they're watching some kind of television
show or a game show or something in the
living room and then they have video
on their lap or some sort of experience
on their lap on their Mac or PC,
that becomes very, very powerful.
So that's why this,
the use of video and media
skins are so significant to me.
And lastly, I just wanted to mention,
and this is revisiting
this GM demo that we did.
GM ByPower,
which is one of our biggest clients,
is actually a website
that drives dealer leads.
It basically,
a user goes on there and has a
choice of all the different GM cars,
and they actually get
drilled down to a dealer.
So if we could go over
to the iBook again.
So actually, if any of you are in
the market for a car,
please go to GMPiPower.
Let me show you this.
So this is something that
we built two years ago,
but it's come up again as something
that now the client wants to pay for.
And that's because GMPiPower is
really interested in tools that allow
the user to interact with different
assets that will help sell the car,
basically, and get them interested.
So this skin was built as
a place to look at and say,
"Hey,
I want to look at all of GM's SUVs."
So here is basically a content well of
all of the content for GM-branded SUVs.
So a user could basically launch this,
either on the GMPiPower site
or the GM.com site,
choose an SUV that they're interested in,
and then we have an application here
that houses all the assets so they
can find out more about that car,
including commercials.
. Tiger Woods is a Buick's boy right now,
so we put all the
Tiger Woods commercials in here.
So you think... Where is it?
I don't see it.
. . .
You know, this is like a million
dollar commercial or,
you know, gazillion dollar commercial,
however much these things cost,
and now we're repurposing it
and using it in this world,
which is a great way to repurpose assets.
Also, our friend VR,
so the user can really see that
car and in the inside of the car.
So if a major corporation like GM is
actually really starting to see the
importance and the sexiness of this,
it's really exciting.
So look for something like this to
be out in the next six months or so,
and maybe it'll be something that
will actually launch off of GM.com,
which is actually a QuickTime site.
And that's it.
- Am I on?
I'm here to talk to you about the hire.
My name is Mark Sandau.
I am the interactive creative
director for an agency in
Minneapolis called Carmichael Lynch.
And these two slides were
in the example I was set,
so I just filled in a little overview
for objectives of the project,
creating an interface,
a little bit about the
execution of some of our ideas,
and some of the success we
found with this project.
So I'm just going to lead
you through one case study.
Go to here.
I never know if people
know about this or not,
but sometimes I feel
stupid asking the question,
other times I don't want to assume,
but have anybody seen the films?
Is that something you guys
are kind of familiar with?
So, real briefly then,
this is a series of short films
that happened over two seasons.
The first season was pretty successful,
so they came back with three more.
And they're all about this
guy who is the driver.
And what's kind of interesting
to note is there was a different
director for each film.
So, there's kind of a different
take placed on all these.
And our job was to take whatever
they do and get it out to the world.
My part being purely interactive stuff.
So here's a quick trailer if you
guys haven't seen this before.
There is audio on this.
I probably should have.
Just imagine it being the
best audio you've ever heard.
and Here's a list of some of the
directors that we worked with.
Well, this is the list of
directors we worked with,
so you can get an idea of some
of the caliber of some of these
people that we're working with,
and this is kind of important when
I talk about some of the other stuff
we've tried to ask them what to do.
The distribution of the films,
as I mentioned, was on the internet,
but we also had broadcasts.
There was actually a television channel
on DirecTV dedicated to BMW for a while,
even as far as in-flight
movies and disc-based media,
so it got passed around quite a bit.
Goals and Objectives.
This was our, I guess,
working brief as to what we were
going to try to do with Season 2,
and I'm going to talk specifically
about the second season.
Obviously, A number one is excellent
quality presentation of the film.
Whatever we did was just
to present the films.
We could not mess with that.
But we also needed to create a really
compelling and engaging interface.
Just to, you know,
not to be outdone by the films,
we needed to make our
piece just as engaging.
Another side piece was always
increasing distribution,
and I'm going to talk a
little bit about that later.
And again, one of the things that
was in the original brief,
even from Season 1,
was unique delivery of a
unique piece of content,
I think.
In Season 1, we kind of did it,
but in Season 2,
I think we did a much better job.
And of course,
reliable and stable technology.
One of the quotes then is,
sometimes they summarize this
for you as you get this brief,
it said,
"Must perform like a BMW," and I always
thought that was pretty interesting.
I don't know if that
always gets played out,
but the interface, not only the content,
but the interface is
really a brand extension,
and if this thing doesn't
perform very well,
it doesn't shine a
very good light on BMW.
DV light controls and special
features also made it.
Here's two slides about Season 1
and things we had changed.
Season 1, we basically made a VCR,
and we had all these different tapes.
So you download the player,
and you plug in these tapes.
And we thought, well,
that's kind of a neat idea.
You can collect these things,
and it's a pretty familiar interface.
And it looked a little bit like this,
where we had these little,
these little chicklets would fill
in with these snapshots of the film
if you had downloaded that piece.
But what we had found out was,
that wasn't simple enough.
It got confusing,
there was multiple downloads.
So we took everything from
that previous statement about
what these films needed to do,
and then we took all our learning from
Season 1 and we came up with this.
We really needed to simplify the player.
We needed to make this easy to
use with no instructions at all.
I think for as many
times as you hear that,
that gets lost so often that it's good
to reread that over and over again.
We need to reduce the physical size.
One of the things that we noticed
as these things get popular,
people download them a lot.
And we ended up paying a lot of server
fees trying to distribute this stuff.
Last season was in QuickTime 5,
Sorenson 3, and we thought if we went to,
or the first season was in QuickTime 4,
this season was in QuickTime 5,
so we did a little math.
We also tried to reduce the screen
dimensions of the films to bring them
down from this funny size of 800 by 340.
I don't know if you guys have
ever tried to work on anything
bigger than that magical 720,
but it's not really worth it.
We thought we could do it,
but no one noticed when we went to 720.
And then viral distribution,
it was kind of interesting
to hear you say that.
So again,
try to save a little money by letting
other people host our content.
So we came up with this great idea
that we thought the film is the player.
So each player will be its own film,
and each film will be its own player.
And if people want to collect them,
they can do that,
but it won't be this VCR type of system.
So when we end up with this,
basically what I'm trying to say is
we ended up with a QuickTime solution.
The first version was Director,
and we had a Flash layer,
and we brought all these
QuickTime films in,
but it just wasn't the
system that we needed.
This system ended up just being so
much less complicated to develop.
And this is kind of my little
plug for QuickTime and for Apple,
because it just worked out
fantastically well for us.
We had one environment instead of
two because we had a binary file.
We had such less technical support.
It was just something that you
could really measurably... That's
information I can't release,
but I wish I could,
because you could just
see it drop so much,
the number of emails,
and even from the client, like,
"How did this work?" or "What
happened to this film?" or "Where
do these films go after I download
them?" This was such an easy,
simple solution that
you just had one file,
and you could keep track of that.
And then a less complex interface,
and I'll talk a little bit
about how we came to the
interface that you'll see it in.
Another thing, I don't know if you
guys have run into this,
but we had a lot of trouble with people
trying to download these at work.
Just because, you know,
they have their broadband connection
at work and it's lunchtime.
But it would not make it
through these firewalls,
our little director solution.
Here, basing it on QuickTime,
it's all part of the browser.
However they get this information,
it's not us.
It's not our fault anymore.
We don't have to handle that ever again.
That was a lot of time
spent just on that.
Viral distribution,
we made a real conscious effort
this time to make smaller files
because they're easier to send.
Again, binary files so people didn't have
to post if it was a Mac or a PC,
and then any viral distribution
is free distribution in our mind.
So we really encouraged it.
Nobody could put up a branded site that
tried to take control of the content,
but certainly if it was passed around,
that was fine with us.
And then I'll talk a little bit about how
we tracked our viral film views later.
So here's the demo.
If we go to the demo machine,
I will play for you what our
skin ended up looking like.
So here's our piece with our music.
Right down here is where
the slider will develop.
These are our play controls and
then a little bit of navigation.
That's about all we had.
Everything will happen
in the same interface.
You're not really moving to different
pages or anything like that.
We hope that the play
button was pretty obvious.
Clicking on play takes
you right to the film.
Over here is our volume control.
We had this neat little system
that we just had one slider,
but it had multiple functions.
We can change it to base,
and now I'm controlling the base.
Change of treble,
and now we're changing the treble.
Again,
really trying to simplify this interface.
Over here,
you can see we had a scan backwards,
and we had scan forward.
But if I hit pause,
now they turned to step.
So again,
trying to really simplify this interface
and not have a lot of controls.
We found this just to be much more
easy for people to use than season one,
that we had to download the piece.
Here, we were going straight to it.
We were one click away from
watching the film at any time.
Little section about the Roadster.
I'll show you some of
this cool stuff later.
And then we have a little section
in here for credits where you
can click on people's names.
So we had accomplished everything
that we had done in Season 1,
but this was all done
through a skinned player.
Back to the slides for me, please.
And those are still out to
download at bmwfilms.com.
All the films are out there now
for season one and for season two.
So here's a brief rundown of what we had.
We had to do everything in
that great cinema format,
2-3-5-1.
We had a full-screen video option,
so clicking on the full-screen option
in the corner would black out the entire
screen and play the video in the center,
which was a great
accomplishment thanks to...
A few people working very hard,
like Chris Stock and Guy.
We had director's commentary in there.
We had biographies and filmographies.
We had our sound control.
We had a whole gallery section.
We had closed captioning in there,
which is really amazing.
And we had web links that all
exist in that little piece,
which I just think is a
lot of content for that.
Executing the idea.
Here's a little process
that we go through,
and it sounded pretty similar
to what Lori had talked about.
We start with a schematic.
If it's not appropriate
in this situation,
we go to a wireframe.
We do things that are called mood boards,
and I'll show you what those look like.
And of course,
we have to take into consideration
now that we have those done,
what our fonts and our colors and
what our graphic standards might be.
And finally, at that point,
we go to creating a layout.
I think that's really important that
you do all these steps before and before
you start working against the layout.
And of course, some user testing.
We'll get to the final piece.
Here's our version of a wireframe.
This is something that we present
to the client to give them an idea
of what the content is on the page.
Sometimes I present this idea and people
have never ever seen it before and other
people have different names for it.
I can't remember the
name that you would use,
but... Oh, yeah.
Do people use these?
I was just curious.
Do you guys do this very
often or once in a while?
I find it really helpful,
especially if some clients are
just not able to absorb those three
different pieces of information.
If you can just say, okay,
this is purely the buttons and
the switches and controls that
will be on your interface.
That's all you have to worry about.
Don't think about fonts, colors, content,
anything.
Just look at this for me.
It's really helpful.
Second step is these mood
boards that we call them.
This is us collecting pieces of
information to give the client an idea
of what this thing is going to look like.
I had a picture of the room,
and I should have brought it,
that just has hundreds of these
things clipped to the wall.
This is just a few of the stuff.
These are kind of these MP3 skins
that we had found that we liked.
There might be just little hints
and pieces of things that you see.
It could be clips from movies.
It could be magazines, books,
whatever you find in the newspaper.
We just keep collecting stuff.
You get it on a napkin.
Hey, that was kind of cool
the way that thing moved.
Just keep collecting stuff.
In the end, you kind of color it down
to a few different pieces.
This is a great way of quickly showing
your client kind of some ideas of
what this thing might look like
without you spending a real lot of
time on actually making layouts yet.
Here's just a couple quotes that I like.
Simplify, simplify,
make everything as simple as possible,
but not simpler,
is a quote that we use quite often.
Again, that's kind of my credo
when looking at work that's
presented to me by my designers.
I think hierarchy of
information is pretty important.
I think we did a really good job in
the situation that we didn't have
to have our step forward and our
scan buttons visible all the time.
We thought if you're playing the movie,
then you probably don't want a
quick pause and step forward.
You probably want to scan and vice versa.
And I think it's important,
a fundamental of design is to only
present the information that's
really important at that moment.
Know what to leave out.
I don't know if Steve Jobs actually
said that first,
but I've heard it mentioned in this
Time interview that he had about OS X,
and I always thought that was
a great way of putting it.
Use conventions found in
the interactive language.
We found it really helpful just to
make that play button a triangle,
even though other people have
tried a lot of different things.
I think I've got a lot to worry about,
and I think I might just go with
some of those so I can move on.
And then we also had to make a template
that was appropriate for all films,
and I thought that was kind of an
interesting challenge that not only
did we have this piece for one film,
but we had to make it work
for eight different films,
being these different directors
of different types of movies.
So we started with those two things.
We had shown them a mood board.
We had got sign-off on
some of these things.
We knew some of our standards.
We kind of knew what
the posters looked like.
So we moved to the
Flame Surface QuickTime skin,
which was based on the
shapes of the BMW Z4,
the car that was featured
in those three films.
We tended to call this the movie theater.
That's part of the reason why it goes
black when you get to the movie and
you're actually watching the film.
The kind of interesting note,
the original concept was done in 3D,
but we were never able to achieve
exactly what we wanted to do.
So we ended up creating the
whole thing in Photoshop.
This photographer,
I'll have these URLs up later if you ever
want to work with some of these guys.
They're just amazing,
had created this whole
thing with photography.
So here's what the Z4 looks like.
Notice the rondelle,
the side marker light where the
BMW logo is and how that's shaped.
And kind of notice the taillights,
the way they're sculpted
around the taillights.
So we had taken some of those ideas
along with-- that's pretty dark--
where the backlight of the cowling
sits and where the gauges are.
And here's our player.
And you can kind of see some
of those same tones and ideas
making their way into our piece.
Music, I think that's really important.
I thought I'd just play this
little clip of music that we had.
I think sometimes you run into these
skins and these other pieces and they
just have this little four-second loop,
you know,
they just keep going over again,
hoping you don't notice.
And this is such a great little
piece of music that I think
sometimes it doesn't get appreciated.
Again, based on the... No.
I was kind of above the standard,
and I think sometimes those
things don't show to the surface,
but those attention
to details eventually,
when you get them all right,
really makes for a really nice piece.
Motion VR is this great
idea we came up with,
where we took a 50-second
movie clip of the Z4,
and we made basically a traditional VR,
but in this case,
the vehicle's in motion.
There were two VRs created.
There was a front angle during the
daytime and a rear angle at night.
And we were able to take this content,
kind of talking about what
Lori had mentioned about,
because it was QuickTime,
we were able to use this piece on a DVD.
And we had a self-contained
QuickTime movie for this,
and then it was also embedded in the EFE.
And I'm going to go to the demo right
now and show you what that looked like.
Switch me over to the demo machine,
please.
Here is the standalone version.
I'm going to turn that down.
But here we are,
moving through Las Vegas at
about 4 o'clock in the morning.
And it's still about 108 degrees.
So we're shooting this,
and the user can watch the Z4 motion.
We just thought there was something
really beautiful about watching
this car move and watching the
lights dance across the hood.
So you can move through all
these different angles on demand,
and even on a sequence.
Just like a VR, but in this case,
it's in motion.
Is that actually separate
video practice on VR?
Exactly, yep.
[Transcript missing]
Yeah, it's very much a workaround
in the background,
but very much the live
stage and a lot of work,
again,
from Guy and those guys helping us find
a system that we can stream all these,
run all these things at the same time
and be able to switch in between them.
Back to the slideshow, please.
That's also on the DVD.
You can get a DVD of all these films,
and that piece is on there.
Of course, it's full screen,
and it's big and beautiful.
You can use your angle button,
which you never get to use on your DVD.
I love that piece.
So our Z4 MotionVR was
eight still cameras.
Those are all still cameras that we shot.
We didn't drive very fast,
and we rattled off a ton of still frames.
They were mounted to this custom rig,
and I have a picture of that,
and I'll show you what it looks like.
And we had a chase car falling behind.
In the end,
we shot 64,000 frames of this stuff.
It ended up for just
these two 50-second clips.
We stitched, we call it stitched,
into these QuickTime movies,
and we used Apple QuickTime VR Studio,
which I believe is still in 9.
I don't know if there's any chance.
Anyway, moving that to 10,
that would be nice.
And they were retouched with Photoshop to
try to take the bottom of the rig out,
and we used LiveStage and QScript to
control the layer switching.
And here's what that rig looked like,
about as long as the car.
It's kind of a close-up.
about all the other things.
Big, huge CF cards on those cameras so we
could try to snap as many frames as
possible before we could switch them out.
We had rented every D1 camera
they had in Los Angeles for this.
That's a great question.
We shot a test in video,
and it ended up looking a lot like video.
And I don't know exactly how,
but the still just looks
so much more beautiful,
and we knew we could use
a still frame to layer.
We also found out that hanging as many
cameras as we wanted to need off the
back of that rig was really a pain
with their batteries and everything.
But the still cameras were so
much more lighter and flexible
that we ended up going there.
Shelley Ward is the name of the
company that built that rig,
if you ever need a rig
for that type of stuff.
Again, I think that's at the
end of my presentation.
Those guys are amazing.
They'll build you anything you want.
I think so, but I think it would
have been a lot of work.
I'm getting pretty close now.
Interior VR, I don't know how many people
have worked with interior VR.
I'm sure you're all familiar with it,
but I thought I'd just
show this real quick.
The photography was done on a soundstage,
and the lighting is fixed
as the camera rotates,
which is kind of interesting.
Here we are shooting
that on our soundstage.
I think that's kind of a fun photo.
People probably don't realize how
much lighting is done on these cars.
You think you have just one light,
but that wasn't even our complete setup.
I'm going to just show that real quick,
just because I think it's big
and beautiful and I want to...
Mark, with favor of photography,
shot this.
And I just think it's some of
the nicest VR work I've seen.
And then he had went out and shot
this bridge in one of the films.
We shot at,
and so we did a lot of work to try to
marry up the films with its environment.
Again, like that Las Vegas shot was,
I don't think I mentioned this,
was used in one of the films too,
so we tried to do as many things
as we could so this whole thing
felt like a unified piece.
And back to the slides.
So, this goes without saying,
but so much of this stuff
was done in live stage,
but just to reiterate,
we used a Flash layer really for
all our graphics and animation.
We used it to control
the user interaction.
We used it to pass the
user request to QScript,
and we really used QScript really
to control everything
that was QuickTime level.
And I think that worked out really good,
making that decision,
which we didn't quite make right away,
but when we did,
I think it really worked out well.
We said, hey, everything graphics,
everything that's user interaction
will handle with Flash.
Everything that goes to the
workings of this whole thing,
we need to do in QScript.
And just by notes,
it's all a new technology.
It requires a lot of experimentation.
I think a couple times we had
given up on that motion VR,
thinking we can't get this thing to work.
And we had tried turning off
layers or enabling layers or
bringing them to the front,
and there's 20 different
ways to skin that.
And we finally ended up
with something that works.
So,
I guess my advice to you is try a few.
Try a few different things,
because sometimes these
combinations of this newer
technology don't always work out.
Um, and compression,
I think you all know this too,
is that compression's really a craft,
and good results come from a lot
of experiment and experimentation,
and, uh, and also the original source
material really helps if you can have
them try to shoot something that,
uh, that's able to compress,
and that's why I kind of showed
that director list before,
because we had had a few
conversations with some of these
directors trying to tell them,
like, you know, you need to shoot this
way so it compresses well.
It was kind of an interesting
conversation to have when you have,
you know,
People like Ang Lee on
the end of the phone,
you know, he won an Academy Award.
And I'm like, "Wow,
if you could cut it just a little less,
that would be helpful."
That whip pan was really bad.
And then we had Yu Sorenson III,
MP3 Audio, and Cleaner 6.
Here's our success.
I think this is kind of
our great little telltale.
We have 40 million views as
the official number so far,
and you know the media that we got.
Here's my favorite slide.
There's season one, our director test,
and I love director.
I grew up on director.
That's all I did.
It was on VideoWorks or
whatever when it first came out,
and that was my idea.
But we had 29% of the people actually
downloading the piece and 71% streaming.
Season two,
we went to the QuickTime solution,
and now we had 75% people downloading
these pieces and 25% streaming them.
And I think that's an amazing
testament to some pretty unique
technology that's very stable and
makes your work look very good.
Then my last little notes
about the dynamic player.
We didn't get a chance to
get into this at this piece,
but I wish we would have.
We did a little metrics collection,
so if these things
even got passed around,
they would call home just to let them
know that the film had been viewed,
and that's how we got an idea
of how many films were viewed.
We didn't do any serial data collection,
so we don't really know who anybody was.
Just kept track of the film views
and how long they had the player on,
which is some really interesting
information for you and your client.
But you could have gone a lot farther.
We could have gotten an
idea of who's watching it,
what time of day,
and what type of CPU they have.
That's all the information
you can gather,
and I think it doesn't
have to be malicious.
It just helps you build
a better piece next time,
knowing what these people
are using to view your stuff.
The one piece that we did do
is we did do the help online,
which is kind of nice,
that we didn't have to worry
about updating our player,
although we could have,
but that was just a help page on a
website that we could update immediately.
And we never got to streaming trailers,
but that would have been
another great use of this,
is to have the trailer stream in,
and each time a new
trailer would come online,
you could still have Season 1
or Season 2 skins and see a
trailer coming up for Season 3.
I wish we had gotten that far.
And then here's some URLs.
EC Media, you can talk to Guy,
which is tremendously helpful.
Lefevre Photography,
we had used to shoot all that
photography element music.
and Chris Sheehan is the,
he's not really the,
he is a photographer,
but he was the piece,
he was the guy who helped build our skin.